In this video, we're going to learn how to create a secret inside of a Kubernetes cluster.
So here's the command.
We're going to run cubes.
It'll create secret generic, then the name of the secret, then dash dash from literal equals.
Then the key that we want to set and the value for it.
A couple of notes on this.
First off, the word generic right here.
There are different kinds of secrets we can create in Kubernetes.
An example of a different kind of secret we can create is some information related to accessing a repository
of Docker images.
That is a different kind of secret.
We are creating a generic secret, which means this is just a all purpose kind of secret piece of information.
The name of the secret right here is very similar to the names we assigned to pods or deployments.
This is mostly used for logging purposes, but in the case of a secret, we also use this to refer to
inside of a pod config file.
You'll see an example of that very shortly.
Over here on the right hand side, we can assign many different properties or many different key value
pairs into a secret.
In this case, we are assigning one key value pair of JSON web token or JWT equals SDF.
Now there's another note I want to give you here.
This is an example of an imperative command in Kubernetes.
Imperative commands are where we run a command to, to create an actual object for everything else we've
done in Kubernetes.
So far, we have not used an imperative approach where we run commands to directly create objects.
Instead, we've used a more declarative approach where we wrote out a config file and then applied that
config file.
The reason that we were using this imperative approach right here is because we don't really want to
have a config file that lists out the value of our secrets.
We don't necessarily have to list out the value of a secret inside the config file.
We can technically use a local environment variable on your machine and then are referred to that from
the config file.
And so that would still allow us to have a more declarative approach.
So this is just a very easy way of creating a secret.
The one downside to it is that any time you start to create or spin up a new cluster, you are going
to have to remember all the different secrets that you had created over time.
So even though this is very easy to run right now and does not require us to create a config file or
set up some local environment variable or anything like that, there is a cost to pay down the line
as we have to remember the different secrets.
Now what I do personally, I have whenever I'm working on a cluster and I'm creating secrets manually
in this style, I will essentially just take this exact command right here and store it in some very,
very secure location.
I usually do not really do that for production deployments.
Instead, I will write out that or take that config file approach.
But for a development or a staging or a test environment, I will usually just kind of copy paste this
somewhere else in a very secure location.
I'm not going to tell you where I store it.
In particular, you could do some research on your own and I just throw the command over there.
So any time I need to remember all the different secrets that exist, I can just go in reference that
file.
Okay, so let's go over to our terminal.
We are going to run that command.
Okay.
So back over here.
We'll do a CTL and then create secret generic.
Well, then put down the name of the secret which is JWT secret, then dash dash, rum literal and then
our key value pair that we want to set inside of here.
So on this diagram I said JWT is a.
That's probably not a great key value pair just because it's implying that the value of JWT is SDF.
Maybe a better thing to use here would be something like JWT or something like that equals SDF.
That might be a little bit more clear.
I going to do JWT underscore e equals a pdf.
Naturally, in reality, you would probably want to use a string here way more complicated than a PDF.
You might want to do something like that, but for me, in a development environment, SDF is just fine.
Okay.
So now the secret is created.
We can always get a list of all the different secrets that exist inside of our cluster by doing a tell
it secrets.
And so you'll see in my case, I've got a couple of secrets that already exist, such as Stripe, a
post-arrest password, and the one that we just created 2 seconds ago.
Okay.
So now we've created that secret.
We need to somehow get it into our pods.
So we need to take the information inside that secret and set it on the environment variables for each
of our different pods.
To do so, we're going to open up our pod config file or more precisely, our deployment config file.
We're going to add in some options to our pod configuration spec.
That's going to tell Kubernetes that whenever it creates this pod, we want to find the secret, get
that JWT, underscore piece of information and assign it to the set of environment variables that are
paired inside of that container.
So let's go and find our deployment config file that is inside of our infra directory off depot.
So this is the only order that we are creating right now through this deployment.
So we need to somehow reference that secret and tell Kubernetes to include it as an environment variable
inside of this container right here.
To do so right after image.
We're going to throw in a new line and put in an end of Section E and V.
This is short for environment variable.
So this is where we're going to list out all the different environment variables we want to have access
to inside of this container.
This is going to be an array.
So I'm going to put down a single dash is right now we're going to have just a single entry.
I'm going to put in a name property.
This is going to be the name of the environment variable as it shows up inside of that container.
So when we start up, our application name right here is going to be the property on our set of environment
variables that we're going to access inside of our app.
So for us, we'll just stay very consistent.
We're going to use a name of J.W. Key to underscore Key.
Then we're going to tell Kubernetes that we want the value for this environment variable to come from
the secret that we just created.
So we will write out value from.
Secret key Ref. which is short for reference.
Well, then list out the name of the secret.
So the name of the secret that we just created.
Was JWT a secret?
So put in GW2 secret.
And then the key inside there.
So remember, inside of a secret, we can have many different key value pairs.
We just used a key of JWT underscore key.
So we want to look up this key value pair and give us the value for it.
So for key we'll put in JWT key like so that should be it.
So I'll now save this.
I'm going to go back over to my terminal.
Take a look at scaffold.
And now will see that a change was made to my deployment.
Now, I do want to show you something really, really interesting very quickly.
This is something that might help you out down the line really quick, back inside of another terminal
window.
I'm going to do a little get pods and I'll see that.
Yep, my pod is running right there.
I'm now going to go back over to that same config file and I encourage you not to do this.
This is just a very quick example.
I'm going to find the secret key ref.
I'm going to find the name of the secret that we want to load up, and I'm going to change it to gibberish.
So this is a reference to a key that does not exist inside of our cluster.
I'm then going to save this.
Look back over.
If I go to scaffold, I'll see that.
Hey.
All right.
Looks like the deployment was configured, but I got an error right here from something.
Who knows what's actually throwing this there that says secret, blah, blah, blah.
Not found.
A little bit more interesting than that little error, though.
If I go and do another cube, it'll get pods.
I'm going to get another pod right here for our auth deployment that has a status of create container
config error.
To debug this, we would do a describe statement or run the described command on this pod.
So I'll do a tell the scribe pod and then put in the name of the pod that I want to describe.
When I run that, I then get the air that says secret, blah, blah, blah, not found.
So it turns out that if you try to load a secret or reference a secret inside of a pod that doesn't
exist, Kubernetes is just going to not start up that pod.
This is just, like I said, something to keep in mind, because I've ran into this issue every now
and then where I will try to deploy something new.
I'll then get a create container config error.
And I say to myself, What's going on here?
And so you do the describe and it turns out you might have made a typo in the name of the secret.
All right.
I'm going to revert that change back to JWT secret.
So now if I save this.
I should be able to flip back over.
Take a look at scaffold again.
Looks like there's still an issue here.
I'm not really going to sweat that too much.
If I do a cube, I'll get pods.
Yeah, that's better.
So it looks like everything is back to running as expected.
Okay.
So we have now created our secret.
We have bound it to a very specific container.
Now, the last thing we have to do is go into the application that's running inside of that container
and make sure that we start to reference that environment variable called JWT underscore key.
So let's take care of that in just a moment.